What is Data Science?

In the article 50 "Years of Data Science", author has reviewed how the term data science has evolved over the years from being "yet to be recognized" science to the "data" science. In this article we can see terms like statistics, data analytics, prediction and inference, common task framework has been evolved to become a data science. 
As we are dealing with data it is very common to confuse data science with statistics. Although, statistics is part of data science but, itÕs not a very big part. We may define data science as the science of learning from data. John Tukey in his article "The Future of Data Analysis" may have first time referred to something like data science. Where he explained that, scope of statistics research is needed to expand and redirected to the larger perspective. The intellectual content, organization in an understandable form and reliance upon the test of experience as the ultimate standard of validity, on the basis of these science can be judged. Data analysis and some part of statistics which adheres to above three factors can be considered for a science.
Statistics research has been bound to its traditional theoretical topics rather than learning from data. This statement was said by John Chambers in 1993 and this gave a larger vision than Tukey's that this field could be even larger than data analysis.
In 2001 Leo Breiman wrote an article where he mentioned about goals in data analysis one is prediction, and another is inference. That started discussion about predictive modeling culture. This predictive modeling which Mark Liberman calls common task framework. In todayÕs field where machine learning became successful those are the same where, initially CTF has been applied successfully. CTF is the single idea from machine learning and data science that is most lacking in statistics.
To summarize we can say, data science is the study of raw data by using scientific methods to liberate and create meaning from it.

